Kurt Lewin - B = f(p\*s) // behaviour is a function of a person and their situation

     Stanford Prison Experiment: Does the place make the people violent? Or do the people make the place violent?




The Abu Ghreib:

    We are highly influenced by powerful situations




Fundamental Attribution Error (FAE)

    Our judgement is not always accurate!

    The failure to recognize the importance of situational influences on behaviour, together with the tendency to overemphasize the importance of dispositions or traits on behaviour.

     Ex: Game Show Experiment: Naive participants evaluate that the quizmaster was smarter than the challengers

     Ex: Basketball players. One player played in a light court and scored lots. another player played in dim lighting and didn't make many points. Viewers were asked who was the better player, and people chose the light court player to be better. People only took into account the score. People are biased.




The Role of Construal

    People often think about, perceive, or **'construe'** the same stimulus in different ways. If we are to predict behaviour in a given situation, we need to understand how an individual construes the situation. Think Tim Horton's donuts look better when you're hungry. Loonies and toonies may be perceived to be larger than they are.




Gestalt Psychology:

    based on the German word Gestalt, meaning "form". Ex: seeing an invisible white triangle in a diagram with no white triangle, simply filling in gaps between other shapes. Once you have a reality, you see the world in that way and it's hard to change.




Topic 3: Automatic and Controlled processing

William James:

    focused on skills and skill development




Implicit Prejudice

    The mind processes information in two was in a socail situation. One is an automatic, unconscious, often emotional reaction. the other is conscious, systematic, and likely to be governed by careful thought.

    Ex: Patricia Devine's research on prejudice.

    Ex: Priming Study by John Bargh: people were primed with watching either an old man or something fast like a race car, and then their walking 