Self Awareness and Society









-----

Evolutionary Aspects of the self 


	---
	Evolution of sense of self?
		- movement from forest to savannah
		- creation of a hunter culture
		- The devolpments of cognitive processes (symbols and language) to acquire food and
		protect from predators
		- Adaptive values of forming a group
		- because of these pressures, sense of self was made

	Why do humans have large brains?
	Social Brain Hypothesis:
		Primate brain evolutionappears to be largely driven by their highly social lifestyle
		(e.g. living with more than 150 individuals)

	The concept of symbolix self should be a universal, part of our evolutionary heritage
		- there are many type of hominids, but only humans have self-awareness/self-consciousness

Cultural Aspects of the Self
	-"I and the me"
	- The me is ...

I And the Me
	- Most animals do not develop these concepts.
	- Humans are different
		- First of all, our animal-like reaction is almost empty
			- "'Me' as a social being. 'I act as a decent student'"
			- "'I' as an autonomous being. 'I behave based on my will'"
			The I part and Me part are both symbolic.
			There is internal conversation between the I and Me
			Think Homer as I and his shoulder angel/devil pair as the Me
		Humans symbolically see themselves and others

Theory of Mind:
	David Premack
	The ability to attribute mental states - beliefs, intents, desires, pretending, knowledge,
	etc. - to oneself and others and to understand that others have their own mental states

	Chimpanzees are able to deceive other group memebers (especially those who are stronger than them)
	But, it doesn't seem like chimpanzees have a theory of mind.

	The False Belief Task (Wimmer, H., & Perner, J 1983)
		The false belief: to recognize that others can have beliefs about the world that are wrong.
		the false belief task: a task which measures one's level of understanding that
		1. peoples beliefs are based on their knowledge,
		2. mentals states can differ from reality,
		3. people's behaviour can be predicted by their mental states.

		Sally & Ann Test
			Children over 5 tend to pass the test
			under 5, not so much.

		Autism and Theory of Mind:
			Mind-Blindness: Lack of perspective take
			These individuals who experience a theory of mind deficit
				1. have difficulty determining the intentions of others
				2. Lack understanding of how their behaviour affects others
				3. have a difficult time with social reciprocity
			Autistic Children showed difficulty to correctly answer this task, indicating their
			lack of the TofM (Baren-Cohen 1985)
			- A Pretend Play: children with autism show extreme deficits in pretend play (Leslie).
			- A Social-Affective skill: a person with autism deficits in theory of mind result from 
			a distortion in understanding and responding to emotions (Hobson).

		Primates and Theory of Mind:
			Other primates are said to lack these abilities
			They request a hidden food to experimenters indiscriminately (Povinelli et al).
			Chimpanzees understand others in terms of perception-goal psychology, as opposed to 
			human like belief-desire psychology.