Constructive vs. Analytical Editing

Analytical editing:
	- Typically there is an establishing shot before the action is broken down into detail shots.
	- The scene is analyzed or broken down by the camera to direct attention from the general perspective to increasingly more specific views.
	Standard Shot Pattern (Textbook Definition):
		A sequence of cshots designed to maintain spatial continuity. Scenes begin with an establishing shot, then move to a series of individual shots, depicting characters and action, before re-establishing shots re-orient viewers to the setting.

Constructive Editing:
	Directors create a scene entirely out of separate areas of space, without ever showing a master framing (establishing shot).

Converging Traditions:
	Films use Soviet montage aesthetics and Hollywood continuity.

"No longer, it seems, are we required to know who is doring what, and where, at any given point. What matters is that the frenzy of the occcasion should be matched by the drubbing of the images, which must pelt us without pity or interruption." Anthony Lane

In Hollywood tradition, Hollywood montage is usally reserved to denote thematically linked sequences and sequences that show the passage of time by using quick sets of cuts or other devices, such a dissolves, wipes, and superimpositions, to bridge spatial or temporal discontinuities.

Disjunctive Editing
	Links shots in less predictable ways than does continuity editing
	Structures editing through oppositional relationships or formal constructions.
	visible editing.

	Societ Montage:
	Distantiation

	Two Purposes of Disjunctive Editing:
		1) To call attention to the editing for aesthetic, conceptual, ideological or psychological purposes.
		2) To disorient, disturb, or viscerally affect viewers.

	Distantiation:
		showing the parts that were put together to make the completed whole.
		film cannot be consumed without thinking.
		Use alienation effects
			Calls attention to the editing in film through distantiation 
			Distantiation techniques -- such as the jump cut.
			Jump Cut:
				an elliptical cut that appears to be an interruption of single shot. Either the figures seem to change instantly against a constant background, or the background changes instantly while the figure remains constant.
