Shot-by-shot:
	No more than 3 pages.
	Purpose is to describe the shot so that someone can picture it without seeing it.
	Camera height, angle, and distance *** every single shot
	Pay attention to focus
	Do not have to mention lighting

Lighting
	Source, Quality, Direction, Colour

	Source:
		Natural vs. Artificial Light

	Quality:
		Refers to the relative intensity of illumination
		High intensity light/Hard Lighting (ex clear day at noon):
			creates clearly defined shadows, crisp textures and sharp edges.
		Lower intensity light/Soft Lighting (ex cloudy day at noon):
			creates a diffuesed illumination
		Magic Hour:
			the time after sunset but before dark or the time of increasing light before sunrise.
			Days of Heaven uses a lot of Magic Hour (was shot in southern alberta. Also don't say Days of Heaven uses Magic Hour in the written response, since this is already known)

	Direction:
		direction of lighting in a shot refers to the path of light from its source or sources to the object lit.
		frontal lighting:
			illumination directed into the scene from near the camera
		side lighting:
			lighting coming from one side of a person or object, usually in order to create a sense of volume, to bring out surface tensions, or to fill in areas left shadowed by light from another source.
		backlighting:
			illumination cast onto the figures in the scene from the side opposite the caera, usually creating a thin outline of highlighting on those figures. Silhouettes.
		underlighting:
			illumination from a point of view below the actor
		top lighting:
			lighting from above a person or object, usually in order to outline the upper half of an actor

	Three point lighting system:
		a common arrangement using three direction of light on a scene: from behind the subjects (backlighting), from one bright source (key light), and from a less bright source balanceing the key light (fill light).
		Key Light:
			most intense light in a scene.
		Fill Light:
			Illumination from a source less bright than the key light used to soften deep shadows in a scene.
		Backlight/Rim Light/Kicker:
			An intense light source placed behind a subject that strikes the subject along the edge.

	Eye Lights:
		are aimed directly into the eyes of an actor to produce a gleam in the eye.

	Lighting Schemes:
		Low key lighting
		High key lighting