Genre

A film genre is a set of conventions and formulas, repeated and developed through film history.

Generic Conventions:
	Isolate properties or figures that identify a genre through such features as character types, settings, props, or events that are repeated from film to film.

Generic Iconography
	images or image patterns with specific connotations or meanings

Generic Formula
	The patterns for developing stories for a particular genre.

Generic Expectations
	describe the experience and knowledge that a viewer activates while watching a film, so that he or she anticipates the meaning of particular conventions or the direction of certain narrative formulas.

Three Functions of Genre
	1. to provide models for producing other works
	2. to direct audience expectation
	3. to create categories for judging or evaluating work

The Break-Up:
	Generic Expecatations - was marketed as a rom-com, when it wasn't really one.
	People weren't happy with things

Subgenres
	those genres that define a specific version of the genre by refining it with an adjective, such as spaghetti western or slapstick comedy.

Hybrid Genres
	thos efilm genres produced by the interaction of different genres to produce fusions, such as romantic comedies or musical horror films

Six Principle Genres
	Comedies
		- central characters are often defined by distinctive physical features such as the size of their bodies or their manner of speaking.
		- narratives that emphasize individual episodes more than plot continuity or progression and that usually conclude happily.
		- theatrical acting styles in which characters physically and playfully interact with the mise-en-scene that surrounds them.
		Three subgenres of comedies:
			slapstick comedy
				- emphasizes the physical stunt and gags
				- Three stooges
			Screwball comedy
				- emphasizes fast talking verbal gymnastics that displace sexual energy of the drama with barbed verbal exchanges between men and women.
				- Bringing Up Baby (1938) -> I should watch this.
			Romantic Comedy
				- humour takes a second place to happiness
				- When Harry Met Sally (1989)
	Musicals